hello David here we go we're live we're
doing it yes we're doing it what's going
on man don't be I enjoy your show I
really do thank you it's a pleasure to
watch you you're very smart guy man you
and like I said we're just talking about
it you're very reasonable in this world
I think there's so much of this the
YouTube political world the YouTube
commentary world where people are so
fucking toxic you know this there's so
much negativity there's so much what
they call dunking on people there's so
much dunking you do a little dunking
some of its warranted it is warranted
yes but I don't know if it's beneficial
to the to the people doing the dunking
yes or even to the cause I think it is
temporarily well sometimes it's good
because it showed it mocks people's
positions and it makes people realize
hey that is a ridiculous position so if
you're on the fence or if you're not
really quite sure how you feel about
things
and you see someone get mocked for a
ridiculous position that maybe you've
even shared for a little bit right maybe
maybe you haven't explored it deeply and
you see someone who has explored it
deeply sort of expose all the flaws in
this line of thinking it's good but my
thing what I'm I and I interview a lot
of people on the ride and a lot of
people on the left and I just hate all
this conflict that I'd say the
unnecessary conflict I think is when you
when you watch television today and you
see and Tifa fighting with the you know
Trump supporters and all this all this
weird conflict I don't I don't
necessarily think that most of it is is
necessary necessary well I think the
Devils in the details yeah so like as an
example if you want to bring together I
don't know people who are on opposite
sides of the climate debate for example
good luck sure right well why is part
part of that you could argue is if one
side just does not accept science right
how can you really bring those people
together it doesn't mean you need
physical conflict to resolve it in fact
I completely agree with you the physical
conflict is totally counterproductive
but at a certain point on some issues I
understand why there's like an in
Traktor
to the debate where it seems completely
impossible to move forward because
whichever side you're on I would argue
that I'm on the right side of these
issues and others would disagree when
you're far apart in a way that you can't
even agree as to like what the
starting-point facts are about the
conversation how do you even how do you
start I have some ideas as to how I try
to do it but it's very tough it is very
tough I just don't think dunking on
people always like constantly shitting
on people is necessarily the way to do
it yeah and I think it's important to
distinguish between just straight up at
homonyms where someone is wrong and bad
because I think they're a bad person or
they're an idiot or whatever to
recognizing when somebody is a
participant in bad faith in a
conversation yeah - when someone has
maybe fallen prey to audience capture or
whatever else might be kind of
influencing what what and how they're
doing I think that those criticisms are
legitimate but yeah you got to stay away
from just ad hominem yes yes I agree and
I think that it's just so common today
it's it's it's it's also extremely
attractive the the YouTube algorithm you
know as far as comments go I mean you
know it actually kind of encourages it
and so does Facebook so does you know
anytime there's a social media platform
that is ad dependent one of the best
ways to get people to engage is to have
something they disagree with so they can
get angry yes until it becomes no longer
brand safe
according to whoever's running the
platform right I mean right you go back
to April 2017 where I woke up and saw
that my YouTube channel made 19 cents
the previous day and i text kyle
kolinsky and i say i think there's like
a glitch is it like it says i made 19
cents and he says it says i made 35
cents or something like that something's
going on and it was the beginning of
like ad pocalypse woman wait oh yeah and
that was a rough three week period and
so so it's you know encourage the debate
and the battle of ideas so to speak and
all of this stuff until advertisers get
worried and they say you know our ads
are showing up on stuff that's a little
it touch-and-go for us that's a weird
one to me because I YouTube has always
been a secondary thought for me the the
first thought was the audio version of
the podcast and in fact when we were
uploading it to YouTube at first I was
like why are we even doing this I guess
why not some people probably want to
watch it and then somewhere along the
line it became at least close to as big
as the audio version of it and then
maybe even more significant because one
of the things that the YouTube version
has is the comment section which is
often a fucking dumpster fire but it at
least there is some sort of like a
community engagement aspect of it that
doesn't really exist in iTunes so I can
in iTunes it's sort of it's in a vacuum
right sure but when the ad pocalypse
thing happened I was like hmmm what was
going on here
it wasn't it wasn't my primary focus so
it wasn't terrifying but people that
only did YouTube and people that relied
on that for their living I mean it's a
huge blow it was huge and at the time
I'm trying to think back I think maybe
like around 30% of my entire shows
revenue was coming from YouTube at the
time so it was not everything but it was
still significant right I mean I have
staff and overhead and all of that stuff
so just overnight 30% going away is huge
and that's why I've tried to move to the
model of telling my audience you can
skip all of this stuff you know even
some of these other you know super chats
and all of this other stuff like we run
a membership program on my website I
control a hundred percent of it so it's
not a patreon deal we're on patreon but
it's not big for us the way I think
about it is as long as I mean listen
yeah there's you know marijuana
companies that are having trouble even
processing payments but assuming like
stripe and PayPal don't say you can't
even accept payments anymore David
Pakman right I control the entire
process on my website so when people pay
their six bucks all but two point nine
percent gets to me and when ad pocalypse
happened I saw it as a maybe blessing in
disguise in that I could now explain to
the audience here's the problem with
these algorithms here's the problem when
it goes from I am fighting white
supremacist content
- an algorithm can't distinguish between
that and white-supremacist Khan oh
that's bad for me yeah right when I
interview Richard Spencer mmm I
obviously don't agree with Richard
Spencer but can an algorithm figure out
that there's a difference between an
interview I do with Richard Spencer and
white nationalist propaganda I don't
know but we can kind of get around all
that if you just go directly to me and
that's why my focus has been growing
that those direct did you interview
Richard Spencer yeah did you get shit
for that yes yeah that's a weird one
right and you know um I'm sure you're
aware that uh that what is it called the
date in society that the Kin whether
there was a woman who made a bunch of
connections like Joe Rogan knows David
pac-man and Joe Rogan also knows Alex
Jones Alex Jones must be friends with
David Pakman like the man yeah it's like
one of those minds you know like let's
and it was really weird
it's like guilt by association I saw a
couple of them there was like an initial
one which means you're thinking of then
there was a map of like the YouTube
sphere specifically yeah yeah yeah and
this idea that everyone's like a part of
a grand conspiracy to help each other
out and push right ideology even though
you know a lot of people that were
labeled as right or aren't right like
who like me oh I'm not right at all my
sense is your politics are pretty left
on most stuff although I don't I mean I
don't know you personally beyond just
seeing your shows
but maybe the critique is based on
because I think that those maps were
based on what is the YouTube algorithm
suggesting mm-hmm and so that may not be
in line with your personal politics
right it's just maybe what we're talking
about
like if you're interested in conflict if
you're trying to get engagement that
that's the way to do it like you know if
you to out YouTube algorithm is
constantly suggesting people like Ben
Shapiro or having McGinnis or whatever
and those videos come up over and over
again sure and I mean so a lot of those
people's channels do really well on
YouTube so if you interview someone who
has a channel themselves there's a very
good chance that the algorithm if
they're watching your interview with
that person will say well here's a lot
of their stuff
and then once you click there the the
algorithm very quickly starts to build a
picture of every individual user mm-hmm
if you watch your interview with ben
shapiro and then it takes you to a daily
wire video right then it takes you like
the daily wire second-stringer guy and
then you're off who knows where right
that's it's all machine learning right I
mean that's all the most part yeah
that's uh it is it's a troubling aspect
of that thing that they do where they
suggest the next videos which didn't
used to be a thing it used to be you
would go to YouTube
you would watch a video right and then
you would go find another video right
they didn't suggest anything and then
somewhere along the line I don't
remember what year it was but this
started happening and then they start
Auto playing the next video autoplay
yeah I think there was a some kind of
recommendation thing very early on but
initially it might have been restricted
to just other videos from the same
channel you're watching probably and at
a certain point it started to recommend
other things and I don't know if you
look at your analytics and see what
percentage of your views are coming from
that recommendations feed from other
stuff hmm but it's significant for a lot
of YouTube channels the the tagging your
videos and getting the right meta data
on them in order to bring an audience is
an important thing so it's a
double-edged sword in some sense it
sounds it sounds like you know to get
back to what you were saying about so
rich labelled you Oh is Richard okay you
know I was gonna say it they labeled you
is right but you're not right dude well
it's just it's disingenuous I mean I've
said it over and over and over again
I've never voted for a Republican in my
life I voted independent for Gary
Johnson just because he did my podcast
okay and I wasn't happy with Clinton and
I wasn't happy with Trump just like this
is just gross I'm just gonna vote for
Gary Johnson I mean I didn't think he
was gonna win you know I had almost no
chance when you didn't know where what
aleppo was right I was like that was his
he was his scream you know like
what's-his-face from New Hampshire and
Howard Dean Howard Dean yeah Barney also
I assume if I'm sure it wasn't going to
Joe yeah but people conveniently will
just as or they'll say that like you're
a Trojan horse they're like a pretend
left-wing /
who's really just pushing right-wing
ideologies well which one which which
right-wing ideology is it gay marriage
is it what is it I put I'm on the left
on everything except maybe a second
Amendment right I think the criticism
that could be levied if one wanted to
make it into a criticism would be if you
engage with right-wing ideas that you
don't agree with right like I take you
at your face you know face value that
you don't agree with a lot of the stuff
that your right-wing guests say one
could make the argument that by not
challenging those ideas it's implicitly
lending them more credibility than maybe
you think they should have that's
interesting because what I try to do
with people unless something saying
someone saying something egregious I try
to let them talk I want to know how they
feel I want to know what their thought
process is and so instead of just
challenging a minute on everything I
want them to elaborate right and I feel
like by doing that I get a sense of how
they've come to that conclusion and
whether it's logical right whether it's
when they're there they've actually used
their thoughts and they've really
calculated and thought this is the
position I take and this is why and I a
lot of people don't know there's a lot
of a lot of times we challenge people in
their positions you find out like they
don't really know what the fuck they're
talking about and that the best way to
find that out is to let them talk yes I
can - someone's on climate change right
that was I mean there's the Socratic
method of questioning you know which is
why do you think that and how do you
know that that's true
etc etc and sort of some other questions
that that come from it which I do as
well I mean I think I don't know to tie
it to the Richard Spencer interview that
I did some of the criticism I received
after was from people on the left I mean
the people I would assume it was most of
it was people in the law for doing the
interview yes or for what I said in the
interview for ready okay yeah for doing
the interview at all the criticism was
more from the left right for what I said
in the interview the criticism was more
from the right from people who just
agreed with Richard Spencer like what
things did they agree with that it is
inevitable that people with different
ethnic or religious backgrounds simply
will not be able to coexist
together peacefully and were better off
trying to figure out how can we separate
people based on their membership in
ethnic or religious groups
separatism I mean literally separatism
that's sad
it's it's a sad thought that you just
can't get along with people that do
other things that that are interests
interested in other things that come
from other places that have different
religions that have different points of
view like why you oh well they they have
a series of you know decades of what
they call scholarship supporting their
view but for the context of my interview
I made it abundantly clear that I didn't
agree with that stuff right yeah and my
view is and everybody can have a
different view about how they do
interviews my view is if I just allow
the the what I consider to be disgusting
views to be spread out right you know
like a spray bottle just spray them
everywhere and not do anything else I
can't say that I'm doing something that
I think is valuable I don't feel like
it's valuable
so my my approach is are the ideas known
enough to be worth refuting that's
number one if it's some weird conspiracy
theory that has not even any following
whatsoever I'm probably not going to
choose to even entertain it because it's
irrelevant in sort of always so my first
question is is was Richard Spencer
relevant at the time all right was
rising this guy was considered by many
the sort of creator of the alt-right he
was growing a following in the context
of the Trump candidacy at the time or
maybe administration I don't remember
when it wasn't real it was I think 2016
or trying to remember when it was I
don't remember when I first heard his
name yeah how did he become how did he
come to prominence I don't know the
sequence but I think he had a wet and
alt-right website that had articles of
some kind and then he that website
became more known and that fucking terms
so talk alright
you know alt left the centrist argues
did all these different labels are so
I'd rather talk about issues I can't
either
it's so clunky but so you know first
thing was I did want to interview him
but if I had felt
I wouldn't be prepared to make it
abundantly clear that I don't agree with
the guy and I think his ideas were
terrible I wouldn't have done the
internet right so the problem I had with
the critiques from the left of me doing
that some who said the last thing we
need to be doing is giving this guy a
voice that's often how they say it or a
platform my response was this guy's
getting interviewed in lots of other
places that aren't even challenging him
right I'm at least making an attempt
here to get something in the record that
there are arguments against these ideas
these are bad ideas and I don't want to
be part of the diffusion of just the
ideas themselves but I wanna be pushing
back I'm gonna have to watch that now
now when you did do that like what was
his response was during the interview
what was his response to your pushback
uh I mean he had answers
you know he was well prepared and I
don't know if there were they were
unique or new arguments that I was
making but there was no argument to be
made that I was letting him just parrot
white nationalist talking points
unopposed which I wouldn't I just
wouldn't feel good about that right it's
not how I do interviews yeah and then
the left was upset that you're giving
him air quotes a platform a very small
portion of the left I want to be super
clear that's Bill Leff I mean my
audience is very left and almost
everybody understood what I was doing
mmm ten years ago I was interviewing the
Westboro Baptist Church most people
understood what I was doing they were
more prominent at the time but there was
this sliver of the left that just didn't
want the conversation to take place and
I always struggle with this because as
you can see I have no problem
criticizing that sliver of the left my
concern is getting like overly wrapped
up to criticisms of the left that are
only held by these like nish slices yes
and that's why I try to avoid going
further than necessary into those
criticisms like I think there are more
serious critiques of the left to be made
hmm
beyond anti speech or want to limit
speech or whatever I mean there's more
so that's that's a pretty big issue well
I don't I don't actually agree that it
exists on a significant portion of the
left like I think a bigger issue for
example like if you said what is like a
serious issue that the left needs to
contend with right now yeah I would say
a more serious issue is if you look at
the progressive accomplishments
the early 20th century for example like
1905 to 1925 and the New Deal
accomplishments that the Left had in the
time of FDR what was different I think
then then the left now is that you
didn't have to be completely in line
with a specific set of policies or ideas
mhm and I worry that now there's a
little bit of the left maybe having this
idea that if you're not in line on all
of these issues whatever the checklist
is so to speak you're not really worthy
of being a participant in what is
clearly a leftward move in sort of the
average Americans political orientation
I don't want to see that prevent
progress right yeah that's the that's
the hard tribalism right that's that's
where the the line gets drawn you're
with us are against us and there's one
way to think there is there is a lot of
that I mean I saw it with health care
recently mm-hmm with health care I don't
think that you can make any serious case
from the left that health care is fine
and the for-profit employer connected
system that we have is working but I
don't think there's any progressive case
to be made for that where people will
differ is what about Medicare for all
versus some other system system that
looks more like Canada's or the UK or
Germany or whatever and I've already
started to see like when I say on my
show I'm kind of agnostic on this like
the system we have is a disaster we need
a system that will get coverage to
everybody the the numbers can be made to
work any number of different ways we've
looked at it but 80 percent of people on
Medicare I believe it is have some
additional coverage they either are
still working part-time or full-time and
get coverage that way or they're poor
enough to be on Medicaid
the point is Medicare for all doesn't
solve every issue right it's way better
than what we have but here's like a
dozen other possibilities looking at
other countries there is a portion of
the left that doesn't like that because
I'm saying I'm against Medicare for all
I'm not saying that what I'm saying is
there are a number of different ways to
improve upon the system we have all of
which sever this relationship between
usually your employer and these
for-profit insurance companies yeah we
be open to that
really don't understand private citizens
that don't want easy access to quality
health care for everybody that confuses
the shit out of me like have you ever
been hurt have you ever been sick yeah
have you ever been broke right do you
want to be broke and have no access to
health care no one does
no one wants anybody they care about to
not have access to health care of all
the things that we concentrate on this
country there's two things that that
drive me fucking crazy that people just
dismiss education and health care the
idea that you have to like my buddy Greg
Greg Fitzsimmons he's sending his kid
off to school how much they say that it
was sixty five thousand dollars a year
for both of his kids for each of his
kids so you know he's got two kids that
that's that hurts my head you even think
about spending a hundred and thirty
thousand dollars a year just on if
you're a regular person with a regular
job how the fuck do you do that
impossible it's impossible it's just so
much fucking money and then that's not
even paying for housing and food and
transportation and books and everything
else that you're gonna need to and to
make it more difficult for young people
to succeed is one of the worst ways to
make a stronger country if you want a
strong country you want educated people
that get to pursue their dreams and the
idea that we are so willing to spend so
much money on these costly regime-change
Wars and flying troops overseas these
places that they don't want to go no one
no one wants it to happen and it's
trillions of dollars and people are fine
with that but you talk to them about
some sort of socialized education system
and people freak out and think you want
to turn us into communists well I think
what is really important to understand
is that the facts you just laid out
don't matter to people see this as an
issue of what do people deserve what do
they deserve so if you say to a fiscal
conservative you know if you consider
the amount that the employee pays for
premiums plus the employer plus your
co-pays plus coinsurance but you can put
it all together into some amount and you
explain to them there's lots of great
analyses that have been done
tell us that with roughly the same
amount of money maybe a small payroll
tax in addition with roughly that same
amount it all could be done with a
single-payer system that covers
everybody it's the same you're taking
all of these individual risk pools where
you have different for-profit insurers
and then you have systems for people
that don't have enough money Medicaid
you have systems for people that are
over 65 Medicare you put it all together
you spread the risk far wider the
employer no longer has to pay their part
of the premium the employee no longer
pays part of their premium to the
for-profit insurance company the numbers
work they're still not going to say you
know what that that sounds great it's
actually pretty fiscally conservative
let's do it because at some point there
is a portion of the right that just
doesn't think people have earned health
care they just haven't earned it they
have education or education that's right
and it's very hard to change people's
minds when that's their view I think
it's might be George Lakoff who I
believe calls it strict father morality
which is like how would a really strict
father treat a child who comes to them
and says hey you know what I figured out
a way that we can all have health care
the strict father even if the numbers
make sense would say I'm gonna teach you
a lesson you haven't earned that health
care either because you don't work or
you don't make enough money or you're on
disability whatever the case may be how
do you convince someone to change their
mind when that's their worldview yeah
how do you when it's an ideologically
based decision and you're on Team R or
Team L you know what which which group
of ideas do adopt right yeah the UK
system sucks you talk to people that get
health care over in the UK it sucks but
at least they have a system it's just
not the same quality health care that
you get in America same with my friends
in Canada I have friends in Canada that
have come down here to get surgery
because they find better doctors over
here because ransall was going to Canada
to get his that is why was that why did
he do that the best place is in Canada
the best place for hernias for that type
of hernia I believe you hmm
I mean here's the thing even in saying
the UK system and the Canadian system
neither one is that good right those two
systems are totally different right so
it's I feel a little socialized medicine
they are both well yes in some sense I
mean the Canadian system is administered
at the province level so the province is
sort of like the market instead of
having all these sub markets attached to
individual for-profit insurers at the
provincial level that's how its
organized the UK has the National Health
Service where they're actually they
don't actually run the health care
facilities but they are the ones who are
contracting them so it's sort of like
the the health care facility still is
its own entity it's not that you're
going and the government is the employer
of the doctors so to speak but they're
contracting with the healthcare
facilities but the point I want to make
is that there are criticisms of all of
these systems but they're different ones
so when we say and the British and
Canadian systems aren't that good right
let's figure out in what ways each is
not that good because there are
different ways whether you're talking
about health outcomes
early detection cost per treatment
whatever mm-hmm you really have to drill
down and figure out and what way are we
saying it's not as good yeah what I'm
saying is that there's no perfect system
there is no perfect systems are right
but I believe that most of the best
doctors in terms of like North America
at least are in the United States I'm
sure there's probably some very good
doctors in Canada that do specialized
medicine but I think really good doctors
are incentivized by profit I really do I
think there is some motivation for if
you spend so much money for medical
school and you you bust your ass you
want to make a lot of money and some of
the best doctors earn a really good
living that I think I think limiting
their uh their ability to earn that
money won't incentivize people to be
excellent so a couple different things I
mean number one to be clear we're now
starting to get into a little bit of
broader economic philosophy like I'm a
capitalist I'm for social democracy
which is a mixed system that's a
capitalist system that says we're going
to invest tax revenue in a particular
way to make sure that no one falls below
a certain level so my just to
contextualise that my point of view is
not from one of becoming a socialist
country and I think we share those views
I think so a lot of doctors will say
that even though on sort of on paper in
a socialized medicine system they might
make less for a particular procedure for
example or something like that a lot of
them are still in favor of those systems
because it would drastically reduce
their overhead so there's an all of this
apparatus that includes medical billing
and coding both on the insurer and and
at the healthcare provider end the
hospital and the insurance company both
are battling over what is it that was
done right what are the codes that apply
here and how what are reimbursement
rates there's fraud when it comes to
that and that requires an apparatus for
investigating and adjudicating that that
adds more and more cost so I don't think
it's as easy I don't think it's as
obvious that under those systems at the
end of the day a doctor that owns a PCP
group for example or an orthopedic
clinic or whatever the case may be I
don't know that it's that clear that
they end up taking home less money hmm
that's interesting I'd wonder if in
practice that would play out that way
maybe maybe I'm talking about just like
high-end orthopedic surgeons that do
knee surgeries for athletes and things
along those lines they often would be
outside of whatever insurance apparatus
we're talking about anyway a lot of
those folks are often being paid out of
pocket anyway yes so it's less in
beliefs some at least some so for the
average person's experience I think it's
less relevant yeah then there's also
liability insurance which is extremely
expensive that's a giant issue with with
doctors it's a huge expense it is yeah I
mean I think it is necessary mm-hmm
there's a question as to whether it's
organized in the best way I know less
about that component than some of the
other ones you know the education in
health care those are the two things
that I think we can both agree and we
need to invest money on and we need to
figure out some way to make that more
accessible yes yes and I don't
understand people that don't think that
and if that's what that is the strict
father mentality they're just the only
thing that it makes sense to me is that
you don't want people who are kind of
half-ass in college just right did that
can just get it
I think that that comes up a lot you
know you hear about so-called three
college which is it's free it's we're
saying we're paying for it through
taxation really important to point that
out it's it's just not for everybody
that's okay I mean I think that that
that sometimes gets lost and yes there
are more and more jobs that require
college degrees even though you could
make the case maybe the college degree
is not actually necessary but it's a way
to sort of thin the herd of applicants
in order to just make hiring you know
more more practical but I do think that
it's okay to say that college isn't for
everybody but the same ideas that apply
to so-called free college meaning
college paid for through education could
apply to trade school they could apply
to retraining programs there's a whole
bunch of other ways that it could be
done yeah no I agree yeah I just the
college is not for everyone thing is
more true now than ever before
particularly with certain technology
studies you're learning things during
your four years at a university that are
just gonna be completely outdated by the
time you graduate in in what kind of
program for example Jamie what he did
with audio engineering oh I see okay you
went to school for audio engineering by
the time he got out it was all useless
yeah but but that was not a four-year
bachelor's program right it is now oh it
is now okay I when I went there it
wasn't available for that but since then
they have made that available and that's
awesome in the time that YouTube has
made basically education free for a lot
of people sure so I mean I think with
that the issue is in my mind that when
you consider the cost relative to the
earnings potential as you pointed out
when you learn about $68,000 a year or
you know I went over this I guess taught
at Boston College and I think it was
like 64,000 all and something like that
depending on what field you're going
into it's it's almost impossible to pay
that off ever so some at some point
something needs to change and this kind
of gets us into the technological
automate automate and an unemployment
stuff of what happens as computers and
Technology start to replace jobs and
that's where I think there's a pretty
clear line between a free-market
capitalist a social democrat like
self and actual socialism like what
should happen with the gains that come
from those technological advancements
but as far as the education piece is
concerned it's completely unsustainable
the way it is now I knew about you
before this happened but then I really
kind of got on board with you when
someone was trying to get you fired from
Boston University and I remember in
college Boston College sorry and I
tweeted it and I was like right like
what what is this this is greatness so
it's a woman named Amy Siskind who I
don't know other than that incident
where you had a disagreement about
something it wasn't yeah it wasn't toxic
it wasn't hostile I think said I didn't
explain what you said in what she what
she'd said that you disagree with so we
may be able to even find the tweet but
she tweeted something the gist being
that she would not be supporting any
candidate in 2020 who's white or male I
think that that was the justice and I
responded I'm going from memory here the
gist was something like isn't that the
definition of racism you're sort of
preemptively excluding someone from
consideration on the basis of race and
in that case gender if it was white and
there is right there yeah there's work I
will not submit candidates in the Denver
area unless you slept through midterms
women were our most successful candidate
biggest dem vote getters in history
Obama oh wait Hillary 16 white male is
not where our party is at and it is our
least safe option in 2020 right so I
said isn't there something not
progressive about preemptively
dismissing a candidate based on their
race and gender I feel like there's a
word to describe that as a progressive I
won't be jumping on board yes so will
you basically didn't even say it's
racist right you said there's a word to
describe that yeah and that's a very
polite way of disagreeing with someone I
thought it was polite and she tried to
get you fired yeah she contacted as far
as I know so okay I don't I'm going by
what she said she said she contacted
Boston College and told them not to
allow me to teach there that's insane
and Boston College since I'm just an
adjunct I'm not on staff when I'm not
teaching like during the three months of
the semester
I'm employed there and the other nine
months I'm not so I think Boston College
said he's not currently employed here
and I think that that's basically as far
as it went but I did talk to some other
faculty there who were aware of the
thing that was going on that's a crazy
thing to do mmm just I think so it's a
nasty mean thing to do to like what
someone can't disagree with you and it's
a very good point I think she probably
got upset because you made a very good
point and tweet started coming her way
and a lot of people they read those
fucking comments and people get toxic in
those comments yeah random strange
people that you don't know and then
you're forced to you know look at their
opinions and their criticisms and their
insults that incident started me down
the path of drastically limiting my
social media use good for you yeah I
mean that that was the beginning and
then it became I mean you know this way
more than I do because I think on all
platforms you have roughly ten times the
following that I do no matter what you
do post or whatever if you look at what
the feedback is it's extraordinarily
toxic and horrible negative stuff that
is only a distraction to what I'm trying
to do and most of it probably isn't but
I hadn't of all on yesterday no more
round weekend yeah and one of the things
that he brought up it's so so huge it's
so true is that you can have ten
positive things but that one negative
will outweigh the ten positive in your
mind you and your maps aleut yeah
absolutely especially if you're a person
who's self-critical or a self objective
you're analyzing your behavior was that
good was that bad right and then you
read that one bad comic fuck are they
right you don't read all the people that
say you're great Oh brilliant loved it
yeah fuck you loser
Oh
absolutely I mean when I announced I was
going to be doing your show if you look
at what the comments were almost all
this is awesome
great left-wing voice talking to Joe
Rogan go get him David this is such a
great opportunity can't wait to watch
you faceplant oh geez and that's the one
where I'm like man are they right so I
don't know I'm just trying to limit the
amount that I'm honest or - yeah one
thing I am doing though because I mean
my show is in part as successful as it
is because of social media so I can't
ignore that right you don't have to
engage I don't have to engage and I also
can just say I will check our networks
in the morning then I'll spend the whole
day I'll do my show I'll do what I need
to do and then before I sign off for the
evening I'll check it and that's a
terrible idea because what if you read
the worst shit right before you eat
dinner or go to bed
well no it'll be like five pm five hours
- cool and it's way better and weekends
I'm almost I mean people are like David
you're still tweeting on the weekends a
lot of those are like pre scheduled
tweets where I'll just sit and schedule
some stuff and I am trying to stay off
it and it's been really great I mean we
looked at our phones yesterday we did a
sober October podcast with my four
friends yeah we looked at our phones to
look at phone usage and I use my own
four hours a day on my phone for hours a
day average book that's a lot what app
did you use to measure it it's something
on your iPhone oh okay yeah you have a
Android we have a similar thing yeah
yeah yeah four hours of screen time like
ooh that's not good they're adding it to
the computer too so it's gonna combine
you'll know how much you're looking at
all screens mm-hmm yeah but if you're
writing well we're gonna count that kind
of sure stare at the screen that's hard
work bitch hey that's what you guys are
making for the phone just as Burke sorry
man yeah well Bert's arguments not good
it's he doesn't right that's ridiculous
one thing I did that actually is useful
is I used to have my social apps on the
home screen and Cal Newport and some
others have said you got you got to get
rid of those
he actually advocates getting rid of the
apps altogether so that you have to go
on a computer and choose to go to
facebook.com or Twitter I I haven't
gotten there yet but even just removing
them from the home screen makes me
significantly less likely to even pull
them
it's it's two clicks yeah to swipe up
and scroll over to the app right but
even just getting them off the home
screen keeps me off of them
significantly that's smart
that makes sense yeah I need a certain
amount of access to those things with my
business right scheduling shows and
things along those lines but yeah it's
not good for you
I mean I think one of the biggest
realizations is that people don't really
miss you that much they don't hear from
me for a couple days like that's one of
the things where the idea of needing
constant engagement comes from sort of
like a slightly narcissistic point of
view where like people are going to
notice if I don't tweet for from
Thursday night until Monday morning or
do anything right they really don't they
don't they don't there's a lot of other
people to pay attention yes there are a
few people that tweet on you that that
are kind of crazy and that want to hear
from you all day long yeah but they'll
get used to it they'll get used to you
they will vanishing and I don't know I
mean Cal Newport it has have you had a
mando okay he wrote deep work and then
more recently he wrote digital
minimalism and he goes into detail about
just the effect of write it down my
phone but it feels sacrilegious to take
it out right now
yeah I mean he goes into detail about
this stuff and just about you know the
we need more uninterrupted periods of
concentration for what is the book
called again deep work and then digital
minimalism and they're both I
interviewed him recently
really just solid very solid stuff
awesome yeah what were we just about to
get into oh so we're this woman Amy
Siskin did you reach out to her when she
did that and privately yeah no no did
you reach out publicly uh well you did
publicly declare that she tried to get
you fired right yes I did did she
respond I don't know because she blocked
me oh god damn it she blocked you over
that and yeah Jesus that is so sensitive
what what is Twitter for right is it
just to fall in line is it just to agree
with everything someone says with no
questioning whatsoever
what's extra interesting about
is she blocked me on Twitter but then I
treat my facebook profile basically as
public so I post stuff on there it's the
same whether you're friends with me or
not and I had posted something totally
innocuous about I was at a restaurant or
drinking and espresso on it I don't even
know what it was
mhm she showed up there and commented
that she had called Boston College and
told them not to you know not to hire me
or to fire me or whatever also hosts
about you having an espresso it was just
a personal post right but the point is
she determined that the exchange was
worthy of blocking me on Twitter but
then she came to my personal Facebook
page and said I'm calling Boston College
and telling them to fire you there's a
word for that guys really if you there's
a gang but there's a big one yeah this
is a four letter one I just don't
understand why someone would want to do
that to someone
why can't you disagree why can't yeah
and she's just upset that you pointed
out a glaring problem with what she was
saying
yeah apparently and you know the thing
is I don't I the way I operate I don't
think even necessarily that she's a bad
person I just assumed that she has you
know some emotional thing going on she
could have had a terrible date as far as
I know someone near and dear to her died
that day I am if someone near and dear
to me died I wouldn't necessarily be on
Twitter your Facebook or post about you
drinking an espresso fair fair toe
people I'd try to get you fired but my
approach is I just I really do assume
most people are pretty good people and
even when we have disagreements I tend
to give the benefit of the doubt that if
we could only talk the way we're doing
yeah we could figure out 95% of the
disagreement I agree with you maybe not
all of it right but most of it so I
don't begrudge her I mean yeah I don't
actually behave in a way I wouldn't
behave but who knows what she had going
on you know I mean it's yeah well it
didn't get you fired so it's not that
bad but if it did that would have been
horrible it would have been a different
situation
yeah would have been probably good
publicity yeah probably helps you I
think so you get excited about that the
reason I'm thinking back actually to a
conversation I had at
where someone said to me if you do get
fired it's the best possible thing
that'll happen right it would just be
fantastic and it didn't because I wasn't
actually employed there at the time
that's the irony of it well this is the
thing that the falling in line the the
no room for deviation from the ideology
sure this is this is a giant issue that
I have with both both parties it's and I
think it's one of the reasons why people
are in these parties to begin with I
don't necessarily think that people have
clearly thought out every single aspect
of whatever party they aligned with I
think they fall in line and they adopt a
predetermined pattern of behavior that
seems to be attractive at the time and
then they fall in line with whatever
that party is saying I think that is a
giant percentage of people when someone
deviates from that like you did someone
who is also clearly a progressive and
clearly a left-wing person and you're
criticizing something and very very
politely and that she just goes haywire
over that that's the thing right it's
like are you responsible for the people
who also comment on your post and this
is this is where we're getting to this
like Vox thing that's happening with
steven crowder right now right are you
responsible for the reaction to what you
post cause if you look at what steven
crowder said to that if we don't people
don't know the story steven crowder got
into it with this guy who is a writer
for Vox who is he's gay
his Twitter handle is gay wonk Alice
maza yeah so it's not that he's hiding
that he's gay
talks about it all the time he's kind of
effeminate and steven crowder mocked
that and he mocked that in these videos
where he was criticizing Carlos's
position on an Tifa it specifically what
I saw and in in doing that he called him
this queer Mexican this like and he's
doing it in a ribbing way he's doing in
a joking way and then Carlos maza posts
all these horrible tweets that came his
way and apparently he got docked so
people got his phone
and they were saying debate steven
crowder who's getting all these text
messages in and all this hateful stuff
that was coming his way so the question
is who is responsible for that hateful
stuff if steven crowder calls him queer
is what is queer okay is lbgtq what do
we do there what do we do if the queue
isn't is he is it okay to call somebody
who identifies as gay if he calls him
the gay little Mexican is that is that
bad like what is how bad is that like
what is that you're saying but so you
feel what I'm saying here it's like do I
know where you're getting at let's zoom
out a little bit right and then we'll
get into okay man where do you even
start with this cuz it back here right
if we will analyze the specifics in a
second oh maybe but first if you look at
the policy the Terms of Service of
YouTube there's a verge article from
yesterday before a few days ago earlier
this week before YouTube had made the
decision to D monetize steven crowder
well they made the decision to not act
and it just say that it didn't violate
my terms of services and right today as
I got in here Jamie informed me that
they made a decision to demand that's
right so in the article where they made
the decision not to act they actually
put what YouTube's Terms of Service are
with regard to bullying and harassment
my reading of it and we could go through
them if we could pull him up we could go
through it line by line if we wanted my
reading was that the that definitely did
break the terms and conditions that was
my view as I looked at what it was that
was done by steven crowder and what the
terms of service are just matching it up
not looking at the comments what was it
specifically it was specifically
targeting an individual on the basis of
sexual orientation but he wasn't
targeting him on the basis of it he was
mentioning that with his bad ideas he
was targeting his bad ideas in regards
to an Tifa a lot of that he was
dismissing in Tifa but if you look at
Crowder's video and i can't believe i
spend so much time doing this but i
don't like a whole hour on this two days
ago yeah he was talking about how Carlos
just dismisses and tifa's being not that
big a deal and that there's bias in the
media
whenever there's anything negative that
happens if you look at the overall
picture
and then Crowder goes on to talk about
all the assaults all the murders that
there were sexual assaults there was
rapes there was all these things that
happened with an Tifa he was talking
about all these different people that
got maced in the face all these people
that got hurt and and he's highlighting
all like this is not something to easily
dismiss sure and that the FBI had
labeled an Tifa a terrorist organization
so so far it's just politics it's just
what it what does he think what do I
think so far it's just that part of it
and along the way he's like yeah but the
queer little Latino says this yeah and
when he does that that's where it's like
okay what is he doing is he ma he's kind
of mocking him right and he's mocking
him by saying he's queer but he says
he's queer or he says he's gay yeah but
that's like saying I mean listen just
because the n-word is in rap songs it
doesn't mean that any that it's defined
to go right but the n-word is not in
like it's not like then LBGT n you know
I'm saying it's not like a part of their
their organiz
you're suggesting that because a certain
word is sometimes used self-referential
II by members of a group that any use of
it from the outside is by definition not
problematic and I'm just saying it's
more complicated and you've got certain
specifics I'm going from memory but
wasn't steven crowder also wearing a
shirt that said fags with the a with an
ass FIGS wink wink nudge nudge it said
socialism is for FIGS okay he's calling
a gay a is a fig instead of an eye as
he's calling a gay guy Oakland rocks
yeah yes yeah I mean in total it's not
crazy
no so no they said there's is certainly
an argument that but I don't necessarily
think the t-shirt is for Carlos Mesa I
think that's a t-shirt that it just has
because he thinks it's funny
and because Che Guevara who is on the
shirt is that is one of the weirdest
things that people worship that guy he
was a horrific human being a mass
murderer a terrible sociopath a
psychopath and because he looks good
involved in the Cuban Revolution look
good with a beret on you know he's he
became for a long time I mean it's kind
of died off but he became like
the woke poster boy I'm from Argentina I
know I don't know yeah I we born there
yeah no kidding yeah yeah so I mean
listen here's luckily my country bro I
made it so listen I think that I do
appreciate what you're saying and I
agree with you to a certain extent I
believe that when YouTube yesterday said
we looked at the content in total and we
don't think it violates our Terms and
Conditions
I disagreed with them I thought it very
clearly violated their terms and
conditions where I am thinking about it
now is the application of those terms
and conditions violations because a
similar thing happened with Alex Jones
as well which was there's lots of ways
smaller players that are violating these
same terms and conditions but nobody
knows about them YouTube doesn't know
about them they don't get any attention
because they have no audience so I think
there's the question of the application
of these terms and condition conditions
in a way that's sort of fair and is not
ultimately going by the public blowback
or reaction to situations because that
that's how I'd pocalypse 1.0 and again I
think it was a coke ad appeared on an
obviously racist video on a channel with
like 800 or a thousand subscribers hmm
The Wall Street Journal I think it was
did an article saying look at these
screenshots of these advertisers on
these crazy racist videos mm that led to
blowback because YouTube didn't want to
lose money and ultimately that's what
this is about I know that there are
people who say YouTube has an inherently
left-wing bias others say YouTube has a
right-wing but whatever
YouTube's bias is towards corporatism
and profit yes that's fundamentally what
it is and but as a company they have a
left-wing bias I don't know that in what
sense well in the sense that the woman
is the CEO of YouTube has talked about
it pretty openly like the fact that she
doesn't what was it that she had gotten
into what she oh well first of all was
the the James d'amour thing you know she
was talking about the Google memo and
she was talking about how it was
incredibly damaging the damaging
damaging stereotypes against women which
it just wasn't it's not accurate is
homedepot a right-wing company because
the CEO supports Trump that's a good
question I'm basing it on that they're a
part of Facebook and Facebook is pretty
clearly left-wing we say Facebook Google
oh sorry Google they're part of Google I
meant Google Google is a very very
left-wing group and it's all Silicon
Valley which is almost entirely
left-wing biased so I think we have to
distinguish between the personal
political biases of Silicon Valley
entrepreneurs and the broader place that
Google has in the sort of corporate
sphere mm-hmm Google is part of the
group of huge multinational corporations
that lobbies for a particular tax policy
to avoid paying taxes and legally that
is not a particularly left-wing thing to
do Google is part of the large tech
companies that in order to avoid serious
regulation of their businesses have come
up with this idea of regulating
themselves okay which I know is a topic
self-regulation that's come up before on
your program in a variety of ways so
those are not left-wing things and if
you want to make the case that as a
company it has a left-wing politic in
the outward-facing world you have to
have something more than just a lot of
their engineers live in Palo Alto and
our hipsters who go to coffee show what
do you think I think that in in terms of
the place that it occupies within the
economic system we have they are not
very different from all of the large
corporations that are pushing against
regulation pushing for ways to avoid
taxes period so in terms of economic
decisions yeah I mean listen if if we
want to talk about how the personal
politics of the employees translate to
policy we can do that but we need to be
able to make some specific claims about
how it does what I'm saying is we know
the way in which the structure that
Google is a part of
leads to advocating for things that are
center-right corporatist capitalist the
status quo of tax shelters havens and
not paying taxes regulating ourselves
etc etc well that's what's interesting
about this Crowder thing is they're
ultimately the decision was to allow him
to have his freedom to post videos on
there but the punitive aspect of it is
they're gonna reduce his ability or
eliminate his ability to make money
Frank well I should say reduce right
because he could couldn't he put videos
put ads up in his video yeah sure so
like we want one thing that I do is we
we kind of split off the ad sales from
my show into an ad agency and we're
doing ad sales not just for my show but
for other shows as well
and those include ad placements that are
not like the pre-roll ads on YouTube
it's the host is actually talking about
a product or whatever right it's a read
you know a live reads sort of thing
unbox therapy does a lot of that hmm
yeah that's where I first saw those who
did some pretty extensive ones okay so
of course you can do that and yeah that
there's nothing so he can do that but he
can't just collect revenue like I'm
assume he's been doing before he has a
significant number of followers I think
is his YouTube subscribers are more than
three and a half million so it's it's
very high yeah more than me and they've
just eliminated his income right comes
out of YouTube and this was their
decision based on his his way of talking
about Carlos Mesa that's that's what
happened yeah yeah I mean so what what
are the concerns to me it's not that he
didn't violate terms and conditions like
I said I think he pretty clearly did the
concerns to me are is YouTube only going
to even look into these circumstances or
instances when there is a public outcry
the answer is probably yes because why
would they look into stuff nobody's
paying attention to what seems like
they've changed their decision based on
public outcry based on Carlos bayes's
reaction in the initial decision I
happen to think their initial decision
was the wrong one but I have a sort of
broader concern here which
about the fairness of the application
and also the distinguishing between
content that is promoting whatever falls
under any of our definitions of hateful
or whatever content and those who are
fighting against it so is it because he
mentioned his sexual orientation and
that he called him a lisp II little
queer or whatever he called him more
queer Mexican and if he just called him
a fucking idiot and he received the
exact same amount of hate would you
still think that that was a good move no
I mean I think that it would not fall
under what they are now claiming is the
justification for the D monetization it
would be different because it would have
the same result
the only difference would be they
wouldn't be attacking his sexual
orientation specifically because of
crowd that's the only difference
its policing speech you know it really
is hears so who gets to decide if not
the private businesses what their rules
are that's where the real question comes
up right
tulsi gabbard believes that it's a First
Amendment issue and she believes that
everyone should have the freedom of
expression and then as long as you're
not doing anything illegal
you're not putting anyone into danger by
giving up their address or daxing them
or something along those lines or making
overt physical threats right that you
should be allowed to do that because
that's what the freedom of speech is all
about and freedom of speech when you
eliminate social media in this country
is your your freedom is basically just
yelling yelling out in public yeah
you're you're in this weird place it's
as a culture as a culture it's
unprecedented really in terms of the
waters were navigating right now there's
a couple different things to so I like
the principle like my principle is we do
almost no moderation on any of our
platforms that my program is on my only
thing that I tell my team is if you see
something that really seems to be
illegal it's calling for violence it
whatever these are we have a very very
high bar before we will remove anything
and quite frankly we're just too busy
what do you mean by that I'm confused
like who's not your videos whose videos
yeah so if we find out
on our videos someone is posting endless
comments oh yeah my personal view is if
it's not illegal I just just let it all
be there yes that's my personal view and
that's a great principle to have well we
don't touch them we do leave them alone
even though we get accused of it but the
the question is YouTube at one point in
time had thrown out there that they were
gonna make people responsible for the
things that were in their comments I
exactly remember that but it didn't
ultimately think they backed out but
very quickly when they realized that
places like yours right which like your
average video gets how many thousands of
comments a lot and many of them
anti-semitic and how would you yeah and
how would you even be able to look at
all those and you would have to be 24/7
monitoring embrace you've also got
people that are watching your videos
from overseas at all times of the night
yep so I think that the principle of
only only illegal content will be
removed is great that's a personal
principle however I think that there is
no serious case to be made that a
private company can't say these are our
Terms of Service and if you want to I
mean it's sort of almost a conservative
principle right the idea that unless
illegal things are going on we are not
going to tell a business how it is that
that it should be run and that's where I
think a lot of right-wingers start to
stumble on this issue because they're
calling for a very invasive form of
government regulation they're calling
for the government to step in and even
break up these organization serves
they've gotten too large but you're
hearing that from the left as well yeah
well I think there's a different there's
a difference though between Elizabeth
Warren saying we should separate the
social platform Facebook from the ad
sales revenue generating piece of it
that's one thing that falls under
antitrust that's different than saying
the government should come in and it
should tell anybody who runs a social
network that you can't even you can't do
anything unless the content is illegal
because there are financial
considerations right I mean there's lots
of content that would not be illegal but
it would make a platform a video
platform like YouTube not financially
viable because advertisers would see it
and they'd say oh we're not going near
that right so I have a very hard time
taking what is a very authoritarian
perspective that the government should
come in and say this is how social
networks should be run now if you want
to change the law here's the way it
could be done if you want to change the
law and argue that these platforms have
gotten so big that they represent more
of a town square so to speak then okay
maybe you could pass a law that changes
how they would be regulated but that's
typically the type of stuff the right is
against because it is more regulation it
is more regulation but it's regulation
to keep a private company from
regulating against free speech do you
see what I'm saying it's it's a sneaky
kind of regulation it's a regulation
that's enforcing the First Amendment and
the people's ability to freely express
themselves if we're admitting or if
we're agreeing that we are entering into
this new world yes where this that's my
position as it is a town square and I
feel like everybody should be able to
communicate the really unfortunate
unsavory aspect of it is when someone
gets harassed like Carlos Mesa was
because of this where people are sending
him all these homophobic tweets and all
these getting text messages and all this
shit that's that's the unsavory and
unfortunate aspect of it how do you stop
that I don't know how you stop it I
don't know exactly how you stop it but I
think it would be useful I mean one
thing is when does a platform get big
enough in your mind that it would
qualify for this like Town Square
designation well for sure YouTube let's
talk about that one because that's the
one we're on I mean fuckin goddamn it
it's huge
okay jag antic so are there other types
of businesses through which
communication happens that you think
should be regulated in the same way
that's not really clear so I'll give an
example if you start regularly sending
people via UPS similar things to some of
the content that exists on YouTube and
UPS says we're getting reports that
you're sending people harassing stuff we
don't want you as a customer here's the
questions a question though isn't there
a difference between someone sending
something to a physical address and
someone sending something just let's say
to you when your social media apps are
on the third page
your phone and you have to swipe all the
way over to get them and open it up and
you have to read them if you want to
find them
well you don't necessarily have to read
them there's a difference in a practical
sense but I guess the question is would
we want the government would you
similarly want the government to enforce
for telephone companies if you are
harassing getting harassing texts and
you report it and report it that's a
different thing I think I think what is
coming to your phone and the phone is
ringing I think that's another step
that's another step towards invasive
it's a big gray area yes is the phone
ringing is it a phone call where the
text is it whatsapp message read that
text right yeah no I feel you
I guess the quite where I hesitate and
again speaking of someone from the left
who believes regulation of businesses is
an important thing I would want to be
really sure about how it exactly it is
that the government would step in and
mandate essentially that their view has
to be listened to over the Terms of
Service that a private company would
wish to have yes I feel like when you
give people a gun they start looking for
targets and that is a very common thing
if you give people the ability to censor
and if you give people the ability to
censor based on their political ideology
or based on what they feel is offensive
where other people don't it's a slippery
slope and I think that that can that can
lead to all sort that woman what does
her name again
the one who Amy Siskin imagine her young
in charge of a social media platform she
tried to get you fired from Boston
College for something that was
incredibly polite right that is what I'm
talking about is their very action that
very same type of thinking that she
tried to impose on you that's what I'm
worried about well they're worried about
people that are really strictly trying
to promote their ideologies and what
they think is okay and not okay and it's
very slippery because there's a lot of
weird people out there that believe a
lot of weird things and want other
people to conform to those weird things
and we sort of have to decide like
that's why I'm bringing up this crowder
thing like do I think that what he said
was good no it's not nice to call
someone a little less be queer it's not
nice it's kind of mean you know and
especially when that guy wasn't even
engaging with him but
he's making fun of him he's a comedy
show he's mocking them so the question
becomes like when when is that mocking
considered homophobic and when is it
just ribbing right and that's his
position his position is that it's just
ribbing this is the problem with a
discussion that is only about the
principle so like a lot of our
conversation for the last 15 minutes has
been what is our principle about what
types of business regulation is okay for
the government to do and is not okay
right or when we talk about free speech
what should do we have a principle of
anything short of illegal content versus
something that is more strict hmm the
reality is that it's a there's a more
gray area yeah we're trying to sort of
regulate the way people communicate with
each other so it's it's not it's like if
someone said that to someone in a bar a
cop would not arrest them like yeah you
listview a little queer you know that
would be like oh that guy's an asshole
but the bar would be perfectly within
their legal right to say we don't we
don't want you in here you're making our
customers uncomfortable and nobody would
say that it would be against the law for
the bar to say you got to go and that's
a good point if they were doing it to
their face but what if he was in a
corner talking about this guy that
wasn't there and he was saying yeah so
he's talking about an Tifa this lispy
little Mexican queer if you came along
and decided to kick the guy out of the
bar then it would I mean listen at some
bars if you go into the corner and you
yell about a lispy mexican queer they're
going to ask you to leave and it still
would not be illegal and the bar would
still not be doing anything right but
that's a bar right that's a private
business where people are physically
there yes isn't there a difference
between that and something like YouTube
which again falls more in line with like
a town square maybe that's what we need
to revisit because so much human
communication is now happening across
these platforms I would imagine most of
it or most of it we we need to maybe
stop drawing this arbitrary distinction
that in-person is a completely different
thing yeah over the Internet I mean
maybe it's not increasingly maybe it's
more the same yeah I this is some torn
here right on one side I say well it
seems like they still allow him to have
his freedom of expression because he's
still on YouTube
he still is able to upload his show on
YouTube he will have to find other ways
to make money sure so one part of me
looks at it that way and no one has a
right to monetize on YouTube right right
so in a sense they haven't violated his
First Amendment rights because he's
still able to express himself but then
you go as a company they've made a
punitive decision to eliminate his
ability or is it radically reduced his
ability to make an income off of their
platform that seems like and I'm not
supporting that they did it but that
seems more reasonable as a decision
right to say we're gonna demonetised you
that seems more reasonable but the
problem is there's no alternatives
there's nothing remotely like YouTube to
avert there's an alternative to YouTube
for him to regain that same level of
monetization yes or for people that
share his viewpoint and share his
ideology and share his positions and
there's no right wing YouTube's my point
and there's this like I would challenge
the idea that YouTube is is left-wing I
mean in terms of its enforcing its
policies how so I mean they just this
just this particular issue but this
isn't this isn't a left-wing how is this
a left-wing enforcement I mean they
think it is because Carlos Mesa is
progressive and because the the argument
that he was making is a very left-wing
progressive argument and this is what
crowder was going after he was going
after the argument in the process of
going after the argument he mocked his
sexuality in his appearance I can assure
you if it was focused merely on how much
of a problem ant Aoife is this would not
have happened I mean I think we both
know yeah for sure yeah no it's all
about the mocking the guys sexual
orientation and looks that's worth if
Carlos Massa were a gay Republican and
the exact same thing happened do you
think the outcome would have been
different yes why I just don't think
people be interested oh well that's a
dip but but so that gets to the real
crux of it which is my real concern with
this is YouTube only getting involved
and even publicly saying what they're
doing about a channel right when it
becomes very public and it starts to
have the possibility of impacting their
bottom line and
and saying yes this is too hot we're
getting out well in that sense what
Carlos did once it was revealed that
YouTube was not going to take action was
very effective absolutely I mean he
started tweeting like crazy and people
jumped on board he connected it to the
LBGT movement and and then it became
this thing I mean the other side of this
is I mean I don't know if we even want
to go into identity politics so to speak
but there has I've read some comments on
some of the few articles that have been
written about this that are saying that
this is effectively YouTube's enforcing
a defense of identity politics so to
speak and I think that that's just again
opening up the door to the the
incredibly broad application of that
term I'd done a small thing I don't even
really fully understand that but I don't
know and I don't even know if that's a
path we want to go down to talk about
like the identity politics component of
what's going on with a lot of this
relation to find what you mean by the
identity politics of it I mean listen so
I guess in order to defined it define it
I it would be good to point out that I
have been critical of quote identity
politics on the left in a very limited
way that I think it is actually damaging
while at the same time recognizing that
identity is a really important thing to
consider when we think about sort of how
the world should be organized so like
for your audience who may not know when
identity politics is used you know like
like a knife to enforce that because of
someone's identity their opinion
supersedes and is the opinion that is
the valid one over everybody else
because of membership in some kind of
group I'm against that I think that's
extremely destructive it would be very
incorrect to believe though that
identity doesn't play a role and that we
shouldn't understand how one's identity
might make us think differently about
certain issues I mean any example would
sure would would make that pretty clear
you know I as an immigrant to the United
States do I get some privileged position
to decide what policy should be over
all native-born Americans because I
emigrated here no that would meet be me
using identity politics as like a mallet
or a cudgel
but as someone who did emigrate here we
should recognize that I may have things
to say about it which would be valuable
and worthy and important to sort of
think about that's my sure on a short
haul text well you're just not
interested in the hierarchy of oppressed
people I'm not interested in the
oppression Olympics and they're not
interested in using identity to silence
ideas that could be perfectly good we're
coming from someone who is not a member
or checking a certain box the exact nor
am i I strongly believe in the
individual and I think it's one of the
most important parts of a collective
group of human beings like a country
then we we recognize that we're all
different and there's a lot of weirdness
amongst us but we're individuals I'd
like to treat people based on who they
are not what classification they fall
under now do you think that that bad
version of identity politics that I
mentioned is a big problem on the left
or not a big problem I'm curious I think
it's certainly a problem but I think
it's a vocal minority problem that's
what I think I think if you just regular
people that are on the left that are
working jobs and having families and
doing their hobbies and they just have
left-wing ideas I don't think the vast
majority of them hold those positions I
think those positions are things that
people use as revenue I mean not as
revenue but it's like they get points
from it you know they get points from
certain types of behavior that they
support certain types of thinking that
they support and it lets you know you
got woke social justice points well then
we agree yeah I mean I Jenna asked
because I genuinely didn't know I mean
I've heard you talking about identity
politics of college campuses when you
look at like what happened in Evergreen
State yeah Brett Weinstein it's very
disruptive yes and no I mean I do think
that it's disproportionately a problem I
think it's a small problem like you're
saying I think a lot of the problem
exists in the college campus setting but
I mean even at Boston College you know I
had sort of maybe been incorrectly
indoctrinated into the idea that this
was really a problem everywhere on
college
and I had an incident the details of
which wouldn't be appropriate to talk
about but with a student when I taught
at Boston College that because of the
circumstances and the identities
involved I was ready for it to go into
this is going to be resolved the wrong
way on the basis of the toxic identity
politics and I'm hearing is existing on
college walk this is and it was not it
was the exact opposite so I think the
same way that when you look at Yelp
reviews people who had a bad experience
are way more likely to go and write
about it yes these individual stories
get way more attention than the
percentage of the problem that they
represent I I believe you're probably
correct about that but when you see
videos like Nick Nick Christakis getting
just shouted down at Yale by a group of
students and the support of the students
and that kind of shit you say well it is
real it does exist it's real it exists I
think that sensible people on the left
like me call it out but I want to be
careful imagine that you had someone
from Kato on the show which is sort of
like a traditional conservative or
American Enterprise Institute maybe is
like a better example and a lot of the
conversation was about getting them to
talk about or denounce the alt-right for
example hmm yeah I'm sure they would do
it but how much should a EEI denounce
the outright when that's like a
different thing that that's an example
yeah it's a very good analogy yeah I
think we oftentimes are responding to
this very vocal minority yes and those
are the people that are most invested in
getting these ideas pushed through and
they're there it's also people that you
know for a lack of a better term they're
probably mentally ill and I only mean
mentally ill in terms of like have like
legitimate diseases but in terms of
their thought patterns
they're probably obsessive I mean I've
had friends that were especially friends
that were heavily involved in this kind
of stuff before and it was very damaging
to their mental health this type of
stuff being politics being woke
left-wing shout out at people attacked
people politics okay but anything
realized somewhere on the wand and then
one of them my friend Jaime kill Steen
was they turned on him and then you know
devastated his life and he realize
along the way like oh Jesus Christ like
what what was I doing like I was
checking my Twitter every five seconds
and insulting people left and right and
attacking people just to get everybody
say yeah go get them and you know it's
showing everybody how woke I am and how
progressive I am and it becomes a weird
sort of a point system like you're
trying to score points you're trying to
gain favor with your party there's a lot
of that I think it's really important
though so there's people on the left and
right who get pulled into political
wellness whether it's I'm now Tea Party
in 2010 people get sucked into Tea Party
on the right and Tifa whatever these are
all groups with different sort of
followings they're not all the same
whatever yeah I do think that there is a
difference between getting extremely
passionate about the idea that everybody
should have access to just basic health
care then getting extremely passionate
about the idea that we need to go out of
our way to shut down every abortion
clinic in the country I think there's
just there's a difference so I don't
want to participate in a false
equivalency between well you got very
far left and very far right people and
they're the same and you've got Center
left and center right and they're the
same it's just two sides of the same
coin like obviously I have a perspective
that is based on my politics I'm glad to
debate any of these issues with anybody
who wants to on the merits but I don't
want to make the false equivalency I
mean listen when you look at
anti-defamation league numbers for
example the vast majority of of hate
incidents in the United States are
coming from the right we could talk
about other ways that the left is active
we could talk about what it means or how
things should be categorized but that's
the reality and so I want to make sure I
don't play a false equivalency game my
audience would crush me if I did that
number one but I think it's just wrong I
think it's wrong to do that
no I bear it out I think you're right
there and I also think that these false
equivalency kind of conversations are
they're ridiculous because each
individual conversation about each
individual issue deserves its own
discussion yes and to say what about
this
what about that those what about isms
those are the the death of any real
rational discussion assurance they go on
forever
there they go on forever there's no I
mean it's like scroll that this is why
scrolling Twitter endlessly is a problem
because there's really no end you could
always scroll a little to it to the end
right yeah I mean yeah the it's the new
tweets are coming fast it's the same
with a lot of those what's grammars ever
done that just scrolled until their
phone died just charge it wake up in the
morning and just scroll down all day how
long does it take I think you wouldn't
because the new content appears fast
right because the algorithm yeah but you
still never run out now just keep going
no there's a few things I don't know if
this would be interesting to go into but
there's a few things that I've found
have been somewhat successful in
conversations with people who really
disagree with me and at least like
lowering the temperature a little bit
and getting people to maybe engage in a
good-faith way one of them is how do you
think I came to my position mmm so you
might be for total free-market
for-profit health care I am for a system
where the government is more involved
and even if you can't pay you get care
before we even start if I say how do you
think I arrived at my position yeah that
has been pretty useful another example
is I think this came from Peter
Boghossian who I think you've had on yes
the de feasibility question which is
what evidence if I presented it to you
would bring you over to my side I'm not
saying I have that evidence or that it
exists but give me a framework as to
what is keeping you from seeing this my
way because sometimes that exists the
person just doesn't know about mm-hmm
those are two tools that I have found
super useful in trying to make some
headway with people who are hyper
partisan and very escalated with a lot
of these issues yeah that makes sense
yeah it's it's very difficult to have
good-faith conversations with people
when you disagree with them you know and
you have to have discipline and you have
to have some sort of a sense of self
yeah and you have to know how to be calm
and kind you know the-the-the descent
into insults and dunking on people
one of the one of the reasons why I at
the beginning of the conversation I was
saying that I've one of the things I
enjoy about your your YouTube videos is
you're a very reasonable rational person
and you don't get crazy and animated and
insulting and I think there's we need
more of that because I think even though
you're not going to convert some people
there's a certain section of the
population that disagrees with you
that's just going to write but there's a
significant number that I'm gonna go hey
this David Pakman guys he's reasonable
he's making a lot of sense he's
intelligent well my goal is and I think
that it's sort of working and that we
have a lot of Trump supporters who are
paid subscribers to my show a lot we
have some are they taking notes maybe
they are to the boss but my my goal is
my goal is yeah that would I mean that
that would be an interesting day if I
wake up and Trump has responded to one
of my videos about him what would you do
I think it'd be a good day well that's
what Colbert did that was how funny was
that when Colbert was on TVs like Donald
yeah how did you not know that you
shouldn't respond to me right yeah yeah
yeah that's rule number one it's an
important one unless you want to create
a shitstorm of a very certain you know
my goal is I don't pretend to be neutral
I think neutrality is almost always
false because on most issues people
they're not indifferent I mean neutral
is another way of saying indifferent you
could be conflicted in neutral you could
be conflicted in neutral but I try to at
least be objective and transparent and
how I arrived at what I believe so you
can disagree with my conclusion you can
even come to me and tell me the facts
I've used to reach the conclusion or
incomplete or wrong but I'm completely
genuine and how I arrived there and I
think that that is why we have some I
mean yeah there's obviously if you look
at YouTube comments there are
right-wingers that watch my show but
choosing to support it financially is a
different thing and I get emails from
conservatives who say I don't agree with
your conclusions but I do find that
you're at least reasoning through the
issues in a way that resonates with me
and I want to support the fact that
you're doing that that's outstanding
that's a huge victory there really is in
a sense in my eyes in this day and age I
think this is the most polarized time I
can remember as a 51 year old man
looking back at you know my history of
paying attention to social issues and
the way we communicate with each other
and just the partisan attitudes that
people seem to have I don't I don't I
mean I think it's probably because of
Trump that's a giant part of it but it's
also just a sign of the times of social
media I think it's in part engineered by
the algorithms of Facebook and Twitter
and and all these other social media
companies utilize and it's also been
engineered by Bath bad-faith
participants and people that are
actually manipulating it I don't know if
you've paid any attention to sam Harris
had a fantastic podcast with and we had
one with her as well Renee Durr esta
when they'd arrest analyzed all of the
various accounts that the IRA had
created with the internet research
agency that was responsible for all of
these fake accounts that people thought
were black lives matter accounts or
pro-southern secession accounts or all
these different accounts that were very
polarizing and are arguing with other
people that these were just Russians
that were working for this organization
that was specifically trying to start
chaos they were specifically trying to
start arguments and when when you you
see that and then I mean that's a factor
that's a giant factor that kind of shit
is a factor and that that is sort of
become part of the sport of social media
has been arguing absolutely I don't do
it I don't engage but I do go on
Facebook sometimes and someone makes an
abortion post and I just watch the chaos
like oh my god yeah it's in or anything
having anything to do with Trump or
anything having anything to do with the
Second Amendment or anything that has
anything to do with the wall or
immigration so I don't know that people
are actually in larger disagreements
right they were previously I think that
yes Trump has coarsened the language and
the way in which it's now acceptable to
talk about a lot of these things that's
number one I think the social media
algorithms like you're pointing out
reward the most extreme and polarizing
comments and reactions in an ever
feedback loop where the most polarizing
initial tweet generates a more responses
than less polarizing tweets and then the
sub responses that are most polarizing
and an aggressive do the exact same
thing and it's never-ending feedback
loop I think it's all those things but I
don't know that people are having bigger
disagreements than in times past I just
think that they're public in a different
way
well there's more disagreements because
people have more opportunity to disagree
so they have more opportunity to engage
and particularly in talking about people
that are addicted to their phones and
it's coming from a guy uses fucking
phone for hours a day right I'd like to
think that one hour that is productive
but I know that three hours of his me
staring at butts on Instagram look at
muscle cars and watch and then how much
are you on like a computer I don't know
I didn't I don't have that that data
right but it's not as much and the good
thing about it is most my bullshit I'm
doing on the phone
most of my computer work unless I'm
laying in bed I just watch
embarrassingly enough I watched YouTube
videos on pool that's what I watch real
I go to bed yeah that's why I play pool
yeah so I watch like professional pool
matches before I go to bed cuz it's not
harming yeah it's relaxing and I analyze
positions that's interesting I do the
same thing with chess oh that's what I
there's like chess streamers it's
similar
yeah that's cue could kick back and sort
of its you're engaged but it's nothing
crazy and it's also kind of stimulating
in an intellectual way right yeah and
it's different than politics yes yes yes
like on weekends when people you know
like my mom will you know I want to talk
to me about politics oh and I'm just
like I did this all week mom yeah juh
mom watch your show she does and she
watches other shows and my family's
super political so really I so on the
weekends if it's Saturday I'm right in
the middle of my break period because
they left wing oh yeah thank god yeah of
course I mean imagine could you arise
some mean dad calling you up what the
fuck is wrong with you David I might
have had two defu ah Dee foo mmm yeah
yeah anyway indeed I think that there's
more opportunity as they're saying -
yeah listen to disagree with people more
opportunities
you argue and in those more
opportunities you're seeing more
conflict and I think more polarization
and I think again the social media
algorithms and all the other nonsense
that gets I think there's I really do
believe that the the feeling that I get
but it also might be because a big part
of my job is being on the internet so
maybe I'm more engaged with it RV Oaks
excuse it a little bit yeah but I think
so in practice in Matt let's imagine
that the disagreements are equal to what
they've always been
but there's more opportunities to
disagree and the algorithm favors more
escalate a disagreement than rational
conversation the effect is that you
might meet someone with whom you have
80% in common in terms of your political
views mm-hm
but the circumstances in which you
engage with that person are going to be
on the 20 percent that you don't so it
makes it seem as though you just have
very little common ground with anybody
right because the eighty percent
agreement becomes background and the
social media platforms the debates
happening on YouTube elsewhere are
focused only on like the most divisive
fraction of one's entire political views
and that's I think what the problem is
hmm but it makes sense because most
people agree that I don't know
gas stations I mean just to pick
something innocuous most people agree
that it's good to have a regulatory
system that makes sure that when you
think you've pumped five gallons of gas
you've gotten five gallons of gas yes
it's so uncontroversial that nobody's
going to talk about it like it makes
sense that the focus is going to be on
the disagreements where it's damaging is
then when you meet people in real life
and it's hard to relate or even be in
the same room because only those
differences are sort of like played up
or real yes yes yes yeah yeah that that
conflict gets highlighted you have
conflict bias yeah yeah I I don't know
where I see this going that's one of the
more interesting things about
particularly with social media and like
things when you come to this Crowder
situation I don't know where this is
going because I didn't know this was
ever going to be a thing I had never
really considered that there was going
to be some digital town square that we
were all
to be enjoying whether it's Twitter or
YouTube or whatever it is that might
even need regulation yeah that might
even need regulation but getting back to
the crowded thing the issue that you so
you agree with it in the sense that he
was mocking this person's sexual
orientation and appearance I agree with
the assertion that YouTube's Terms of
Service as written were violated on the
basis that he was singling out an
individual and the characteristics that
that individual was being targeted with
or spoken about were sexual orientation
in terms that that the Terms of Service
say is not allowed is that different in
your opinion than someone singling
something out for what you believe is
their mental incompetency
well that mental in company near agree
more that they're that they're mentally
ill or cognitively limited cognitively
limited mocking their ability to think
walking their intelligence mocking their
decisions mocking their the way they
talk and then encouraging other people
to do the same thing and then that
person gets harassed based on their
intelligence based on their performance
on particular YouTube videos and
conversations and there's active
harasser so there's people that do that
is there a difference between say what
Sam cedar does to Dave Rubin what is Sam
do to Dave Rubin he has I don't know
that I seen that video dozens of videos
don't say that video he has dozens of
videos where he's just dunking on Dave
Rubin so I I mean I I have some as well
I believe that they are substantive
that's my view is that my videos about
Dave Rubin are substantive I really I
don't really watch any left-wing stuff
because I want to try to isolate myself
enough to make sure that what I'm saying
are my ID and that I'm not taking them
so I am sure friends motion comic and oh
that's interesting in comics do though I
don't know but if there's some specific
examples we could comment about them but
I think that there to your first
question there is a difference between
going after someone for sexual
orientation
then going after them for the fact that
they say things that are wrong or don't
know stuff until you're making fun of
someone who has an actual handicap of
some kind some kind of you know limited
cognitive limitation that would be a
disability of some kind then you are
mocking someone for a disability but the
resulting effect of the harassment the
the see this is what I was getting at
before with Crowder
like what Crowder said was one thing but
one of the things that Carlos Mesa was
just discussing was what the people that
had watched Crowder what they were doing
how they were going after him as if see
that and that is a real discussion like
what what happens when you say something
about someone and then your fans agree
and then they take action which I didn't
see that in the steven crowder decision
that the reaction was part of YouTube's
evaluation now I may just have missed
that but I didn't see YouTube say that
part of the calculation had to do with
what other people were doing I don't
think they did say that I don't think
they would but I think Carlos Mesa did
say that it was one of the things that
he was talking about this endless
assault that he's experienced well he's
right to call it deplorable I think we
would agree with that I think your
question is more about whether you
choose who's responsible for it yeah
these anonymous people that can just
lash out at someone and insult them out
of nowhere ultimately they are
responsible those people are those
people those people however so there's
this term stochastic terrorism I don't
know if you're familiar with no I'm not
the Catholic terrorism is the idea that
if you have a big enough audience and
you go and every day you're talking
about someone should really do something
about a particular politician you're
doing it every day you're doing every
day at a certain point given a large
enough audience and enough repetition of
that and the fact that there's like a
distribution of people's emotional
states cognitive capacity etc it is
statistically probable that someone from
that audience is going to go and try to
do something about whoever it is that
you're targeting that individual who
the show and is hammering on this person
day after day after day they're not
going to be legally responsible for that
person from their audience who went and
did something that there's no way that
you're going to hold them legally
responsible under the current legal
system that we have but you could argue
that it is irresponsible in some way not
to understand that your consequences
have actions of course the person who
goes and does the violent act is the
primary person who is responsible right
but as long as you're not calling out
for that act
how do we make this distinction that
someone is encouraging that act or
someone is at least inspiring that their
judgment calls I mean listen I can go on
my show and I can speak in vague
terminology or specific terminology you
know imagine that there's a local
business that I don't like I could go on
my show and I could say this business
did this and I need everybody in my
audience to show up there and to make it
impossible to get in and patronize that
business that's very clearly on one side
of the gray area I could instead say you
know there's a business I could say the
type of business but I not not name it
if it's a small enough town people would
know exactly what business I'm talking
about and I really don't like the way I
was treated there and if only there was
some way that someone could do something
about it the effect could be the exact
same right I don't know how you measure
when it's on one side yeah it's like
yeah right you could somehow or another
remove your yeah you could somehow or
another make it so it's yeah I'm
agreeing with you yeah you could remove
your responsibility for the action and
some sort of while it's just got
interesting I was just I was trying to
find a tweet from aza about him sending
or asking people to flag Crowder's
videos did you get the one where he has
people to go assault people with
milkshakes and only ate them at every
turn you just tweeted an hour ago or at
12:30 that to clarify this is responding
to Carlos Massa to clarify in order to
restate monetization on this channel he
will need to remove the link to his
t-shirts oh so it's the figs t-shirt
yeah oh well that's all he has to do he
specifically asked about that and then
they were
oh that's nice to do Wow that's why
using that's pretty pretty
straightforward it's pretty
straightforward yeah this shirts stupid
but you know he's a comedian I mean
that's what Crowder's doing and in his
doing the thing about Mesa he's mocking
him for his appearance but Carlos Mesa
specifically encouraged people to throw
milkshakes at people that disagree with
him and to harass them publicly and
humiliate them so one thing doesn't
justify the other no it doesn't have
that but that is more egregious how
fasting people to assault people and
asking people to physically humiliate
people in person in my opinion is more
egregious I don't agree with mocking his
physical appearance physical appearances
that's just what it is you know but the
sexual orientation aspect of it it's
like yeah I get it
I get it it's not it's not nice how far
do you think this is just a comedian
thing goes because I hear that a lot in
just excusing things that are saying
he's trying to do comedy right so he's
trying to make fun is he yeah hold on
but make comedy and making fun of
someone are two different things like I
don't do comedy but I will sometimes
make fun of things people say right but
Hays doing it to be funny he's making
fun of things specifically to be funny
and sometimes you know when you do that
you go too far you cross lines I
genuinely did not realize that Crowder
does a comedy show oh yeah yeah he's so
when he so show is a comedy show Wow
yeah a lot of it is funny he does some
funny shit he really does whether you
agree with him or disagree with him he's
done some hilarious bits I genuine I'm
I'm reacting in real time because I had
no idea he has this bit he does about
this French socialist he puts on a wig
and pretends to be this different person
he's pretend to be a transgender person
he's pretended to he's done a bunch of
these infiltration videos will go into
these ridiculous organizations and ask
them questions but it's very much a
comedy show dressing up like a trans
person's funny it is if you're funny I
if you're good I mean mrs. Doubtfire it
wasn't that funny and that's what he was
doing he was dressing up as a woman he
was dressing up as a woman
right he was dressing up as a woman and
that's a great movie I agree with you
there there's some funny shit and yeah
my gosh look how many times in live
color did they dress up like women
there's there's some humor to someone
who is a man who's dressing up like a
woman sure that can that can be and I
shouldn't comment specifically on
crowder doing it if I haven't seen it no
he's got some funny shit he does you
know and I'll take shit for that for
saying that he's funny makes me laugh
that's why I'm staying quiet yeah I know
I understand I I get it I don't agree
with him you know constantly going on
and on about this guy being queer are
calling him ELISA pee little queer but
he's doing it to try to be funny so the
question is when can you do that to be
funny and apparently with YouTube you
can do that and be funny as long as you
yeah that's actually it even that's even
weirder now it's weird that they just if
he removes a t-shirt link a link to the
t-shirt oh he can still sell it he just
can't link to it from YouTube I think
that's what they're saying
that's so minor that it's hard to I mean
it isn't because it's sort of an
encouraging people to buy it and then
YouTube would say well if you have an ad
on that then you're encouraging
homophobic behavior and we can allow
that with our monetization policy
I mean it's minor in the context of
everything else that's wrapped up in
this yeah I buy it might be an important
fun you know revenue-generating t-shirt
I mean I think so much of this again
these disagreements on issues it comes
down to what you and I were talking
about before that if two people are in a
room together 95% of what they're
talking about you're gonna agree on when
someone's making a video on someone if
they just say a fucking David Pakman mad
I here's my deal with that guy and then
you just ranting thing is I hate his
fucking neck I don't like his shirt and
his face is stupid when people do stuff
like that like it's just it's a it's a
terrible way to communicate because it's
first of all you'd have to be a real
asshole to say most of the things that
people say about things and they're
dunking on them in person you have to be
it you need to be a bad person yeah so
you know the person's gonna see it so
you're just deciding I'm gonna be a bad
person pretend I'm not a bad person
because I'm gonna do it in a way where
they're not in the room so I'm just
gonna shit all over them give them my my
real opinion sure but it's not like a
real it's not like you and I are at
dinner and you're like you know if it
fuck this guy and the
that's that's how people talk yeah but
when you're doing that but you're doing
it you're broadcasting it I think we're
all learning in this process of doing
podcasts and video blogs and all this
stuff we're all learning that you're not
alone you are doing this and you're
saying it in a way that that person's
gonna see the same could be applied to
dave rubin and sam cedar dunking on them
all time and it's kind of the same thing
in michael roberts as well it's the same
sort of thing there that that's what
they're doing yeah there's saying things
that they wouldn't say if he was there
in person right but sure okay well today
we're sitting around having lunch
together talking shit about some stupid
thing that he said the night before yeah
that that's fine and I don't think I
mean whether or not you would say
something in person doesn't tell us
whether it's a fair or unfair critique
true I think it's fair to say I try to
avoid strict at homonyms I will I mean
listen we're all trying to get it build
an audience right so at a certain point
yes like I will pick titles that I think
are the most interesting titles to get
people to watch the thing or whatever or
I'll use vocabulary that I might not use
in person but at least what I'm trying
to do is make it as substantive as
possible and to sort of like justify how
I came to my conclusions yes that part
of it in in-person conversations usually
will not lend itself to like screaming
or violence or whatever if that part is
the focus I completely agree with you on
that yeah I think we'd be better off if
we did try to communicate with but when
you do in comedy that goes out the
window
it does but cut even comedy aside I
agree with the principle communicate
battle of ideas marketplace of ideas
very very big ideas we all want to hear
about and what are the best ideas and
let's rank the ideas there are people
whose views are so extreme that you
can't really bring them to the table as
reasonable negotiating partners for
figuring something out right like
Richard Spencer sure or or even I mean
okay americana louis farrakhan who I've
spoken out about many times imagine that
we want to figure out what the tax rate
should be something that politicians
have to do all the time if you have a
group of
people who believe that we need a 25
percent flat tax and a group of people
who want you know like an escalating
progressive tax that gets as high as 70
percent on income over 10 million
whatever right like fill it all then all
those people are going to be able to
have a conversation if someone comes in
who says any taxes that the government
collects are a form of slavery how do
you integrate that into the conversation
about how to set tax rates hmm
you can't right yeah so all of this
stuff you know there's this new movement
now which i think is great about
long-form conversations going in-depth
figuring out what our disagreements are
like I'm for all of it I'm absolutely
for all of it
I thought you do it I do it I do it okay
but where I do think that there's like a
lack of pragmatic reality to it is some
people's ideas are so extreme that they
can't in any sensible way be
incorporated into an actual good-faith
discussion of how society should be
organized that is the problem with
having conversations in scale right and
that's the problem with Twitter and with
YouTube that you're dealing with
millions and millions and millions of
human beings and when you have that
broad spectrum of humans you're going to
have people on the far ends of both
sides and at a certain point there a
decision has to be made about who
actually gets to participate in the
decision making conversation right it's
great for everybody to have a voice on
taxation on Twitter but imagine if there
was a significant portion of our elected
officials who straight-up think taxes or
slavery like I just don't know how that
becomes integrated into a decision about
tax policy right I think the the
argument would be that bad ideas should
be combatted with good ideas not with
silencing someone and that when you do
silence someone you just sort of create
this blockade where the idea builds up
behind it and then the opposition to
your perspective builds up and then
people start picking teams and picking
sides and and I honestly think that
that's something that's going to be
going on right now with the soul Crowder
Crowder Vox thing I think people are
going to pick sides and they fucking
love it people love a good conflict to
get into there's a lot of people in the
cubicles right now that are weighing in
and
and firing up and there's people that
want to Docs him again and these people
want to infiltrate his Facebook and its
Twitter that's what people do
yeah you're dealing with me I mean what
does Crowder have 3.5 3.8 million
something like that I mean I think what
you have to also remember is it's not
just the reactions that are sort of like
tailored to continue the escalation I
mean in the end maybe Crowder personally
in his personal life
does refer to people he perceives to be
gay or who are gay as queers I don't
know or he uses the word fags I have no
idea but he didn't use that word the
t-shirt has the asterisk I guess it's a
goof it's it actually as a fig it
doesn't have an asterisk the okay or an
A is a fig it's four figs it's the idea
it's an I got it but okay it's a goofy
joke fair my point is I don't know you
know any sensible person who lives in
the West and has access to media like
steven crowder or whoever knows that the
use of that language has a very specific
path that instead of reactions that it's
going to trigger
so specifically that shirt the shirt and
john-carlos maza as a queer Mexican or
whatever the phrase see that that's a
weird one the what the queer one is a
weird one because it's what it's with
lbgtq like what is like here's a good
one right National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People ok
n-double-a-cp
you can't call people color people sure
but that organization was named yes a
long time at sure and it's it's more
acronyms than anything else at this time
Sam but it's not right you both we both
know what the acronym with the
individual letters or words in that
acronym are I think the word queer is
not a derogatory word but the or it
cannot be dependency fucking queer Yeah
right sure I mean listen it's the same
way with Jew right I'm in a family thing
and it's a bunch of Jews or whatever
that's a word that can be used in a way
that if someone shows up if Richard
Spencer shows up or one of his followers
and goes to a bar mitzvah and talks
about this room full of Jews the word is
the same word yes
we're talking about two very different
things that's a good point but should he
be allowed to say this room full of Jews
allowed I mean it's not illegal no it's
not illegal he is allowed right he is
allowed but where does it like this
roomful where does it get toxic well if
Richard Spencer shows up at a Bar
Mitzvah and yells about this religious I
think it's gotten toxic yeah that's a
good subject to break this stalemate of
this subject not stalemate but this you
know sort of end this anti-semitism
right seems to be ridiculously on the
rise and that that's stunning to me hmm
that shocked me when I why because the
Internet the internet sort of exposed
anti-semitism that I didn't necessarily
know existed I see at the levels that
existed that I knew there was
anti-semites but I didn't know they were
so brazen and overt
well they've gotten brazen since January
of 2017 okay I don't know that Donald
Trump has created anti-semites in fact
he probably hasn't well his son in laws
- son-in-law is Jewish his daughter
converted to Judaism etc but I think
that Richard Spencer told me we know
that Trump is not literally a white
nationalist who is going to talk about
let's take control back from the Jews
but we see him as the closest thing to
what we would like he talks about people
from Mexico he talks about shithole
countries etc so it's just emboldened
the movement it doesn't necessarily
create but people from Mexico and
shithole countries that doesn't
necessarily really equate with Israel no
well anti-semitism in Israel all sorts
you totally surprised exist you could be
against the current Israeli
administration as I am like Benjamin
Netanyahu and still call out
anti-semitism against Jews in the short
States for example or whatever I see
what you're saying it doesn't one is not
directly linked to the other but if
you're a group that already has these
views and then you see a guy who opens
his campaign
talking about they're sending rapists
and criminals but some I'm sure are good
people and I don't want people coming
here from shithole countries what about
Norwegians whatever it's a signal yeah
it's a signal and I've spoken to former
KKK people some of whom are really
interesting people to talk to and they
know exactly why it's appealing because
they see the signals in the vocabulary
and the non whistling so I think it's
just brought it out into the forefront I
don't know that new anti-semitism has
necessarily been generated although it
being in the forefront probably does
start to get some people kind of curious
like oh maybe all the problems are
because of the Jews I don't know hmm
it's just I guess they find groups of
like-minded folks and they they join
along right is that the anti-semites
yeah that they find them online and then
you can stumble into it where you
ordinarily wouldn't be around people
that are having those discussions that
can happen and a lot of the people that
I've talked to that got into those
beliefs and then out of them said that
they got in usually on a community level
there was something about the community
that was appealing to like gangs gangs
or in the case of you know KKK and white
supremacy people that had a bad home
situation and they found a group that
would accept them like partially they
would accept them because they were
white right and then they got pulled
into the beliefs and eventually they
sort of got out of them yeah it's just
so you think the rise of it in 2017
there's more anti-semitism or you think
it's more or overt I believe it's
moreover because tremors the president
yeah and you know groups that track
these incidents like the anti-defamation
league and others they have the data and
there have been increases mmm yeah it's
it's stunning to me you know you see it
online in so many different places yeah
and I just don't remember seeing it
before or not like that not that's you'd
run into it so often or people calling
people to Zionist shills yeah I mean
that's an important thing to talk I mean
people call me that all the time and you
know I feel like that is an issue where
I try to speak I mean chill to me
just that you're saying one thing but
with some kind of other agenda that
you're trying to push in some way in
other words you are you're being in some
way deceptive about your actual
intentions in what you say so I think
when people call me a Zionist shill what
they mean is I'm talking about one thing
with the secret goal or below the
surface goal of actually promoting some
action by the state of Israel I think
that's the idea of a shill but you know
I mean I opposed to the current prime
minister in Israel I've made clear that
isn't he in trouble right now yeah I
mean he's been in tentative trouble for
a long time his wife is in trouble as
well I believe but that I mean the
problem is and I know that there are
people on the left and right that when I
say this will I mean I'm gonna get
crushed from what I'm about to say
sometimes when someone says Zionist
shill it's related to your view on the
israeli-palestinian conflict sometimes
when someone's has sinus shell it's
cover for just wanting to insult someone
for being Jewish or anti-semitism you
got to look at every instance one by one
yeah and sometimes people just like
saying things - yeah yeah it's a popular
thing to say especially they find out
that you're Jewish
absolutely it's like a thing yeah it's a
thing to say it's a little weapon to use
it absolutely is
do you find this is sort of an abstract
question but the overall like doing this
show and and having this increased ever
increased exposure do you do you enjoy
it are you are you weirded out by the
interactions with all the people do you
feel pressure by all the comments and do
you feel like a little bit of anxiety
from all the social media aspects of it
I I do so I enjoy the idea that people
are listening to my ideas and either
agreeing or disagreeing but they're
considering them and then integrating it
into how they figure out what they think
about the world around them that's
awesome
I do get weirded out by sort of like
safety security stuff
that sometimes comes up which I try not
to even like put too much attention on
because I feel like it just feeds and
gives people ideas and people who you
know come up to me and I mean I'm more
curious to actually hear your thoughts
about this come up to me and you know
they may not necessarily see the world
the way I see it and I'm unsure sort of
like what are their intentions type of
thing I mean I it gives me anxiety and
it gives people that are close to me
anxiety for sure yeah because your
profiles just if you keep doing this
you're very good at it
thank you you're gonna continue to get
more and more popular yeah and I mean I
guess it's a double-edged sword
I mean I don't know like when you do a
comedy show afterwards is it kind of
like a free-for-all where people can
come up and chat with you sometimes yeah
yeah and do you get skittish no you
don't yeah most people are nice I agree
the vast majority people are nice I
agree they they come to see you there
usually fans and I just want to take
pictures say what's up I guess it's a
little different when what you do is
like overtly political
yes versus other areas like if yes an
actor comedian doing great things
racecar driver right you are in a much
more conflict driven profession yeah no
sense yeah I mean I have political
people on like you but I'm you know I'm
not entirely engaged in politics like
you guys are right
yeah I don't know I mean I do worry that
no matter what happens in the next few
elections I don't know how we reverse
the radicalization polarization effects
of the social media echo chambers that
we've been talking about and I only see
that as further I mean we could still
accomplish good things while that's
going on like I think if we elect the
right people maybe we can get good
things done but in parallel there is
this like hyper radicalized polarized
narrative that's going on and I don't
see any way that that's going to turn
around I wonder myself I do I and and
I'm very very confused by it
because I don't see any long-term
solution for this other than some
radical change in the way human beings
communicate with each other and that
I've contemplated that and hypothesized
in theory
and I really think that it if what has
changed the way we communicate is
technology and this immersive immersive
aspect of social media technology the
fact that we carry these devices with us
all the time that allow us to
communicate and allow us to read other
people's communications and/or watch
other people's communications and I have
a concern that this is going to escalate
with each each expansion and each
innovation in terms of like what and I
don't know what it would because no one
saw the internet coming if you go back
30 years ago no one ever thought
anything was going to be anything like
it is now well Al Gore did haha I bet he
did but if you could but if you go 30
years from now me what are we really
looking at what what what what what is
this world going to bei I don't think
anybody has an idea I think we have no
idea and I think it's going to be if you
look at the trend the trend is not
towards calming people down and giving
people space and ya allowing people to
meditate more know that the trend is to
get more and more immersed right the
trend is for us to get closer and closer
to each other to remove boundaries rube
ound reach for information and ideas and
even in long term contemplations of this
I've all often thought that everything
right all of our communication is
basically ones and zeroes it's all
information it's all the words and
thoughts and videos and now you're
getting into cryptocurrency now
cryptocurrency is essentially ones and
zeros it's all digital everything's
digital and the bottlenecks if any
bottlenecks are there at all the
bottlenecks are slowly but surely
getting removed this the the bots the
blockades and the walls I think we're
going to probably experience some sort
of a level of immersive technology in
our lifetimes that's going to change the
way human beings communicate period and
that we're gonna look back at this time
like huh remember when we thought that
like social media our rights were like
the big deal yeah I am
I was recent I used to have more of like
a techno utopian view
and it started to sort of change
partially because of some of the sci-fi
I read we are aiming so everything but
most recently so like 15 years ago I
read the Richard K Morgan book altered
carbon and at the time I was like this
has to be made into something that's the
one that's on Netflix now and then
like a year ago Joel Kinnaman was in the
series and it is just awesome and it was
good the series is quite good
the series is quite good yeah and I
really like Joel Kinnaman and I you know
Richard K Morgan I interviewed who wrote
the book years ago but that genre
started to move me away from techno
utopianism and technology's just gonna
solve so many problems because it also
is going to create new problems that we
don't even yet know about so as an
example I went all the back all the way
back to the beginning when humans went
from hunter-gatherers and figured out we
can domesticate some crops we can start
agriculture and settle and be in one
place that was the acceleration of what
we know of as wealth ownership what it
was like the start right so much of what
we had I mean
agriculture allowed people to be able to
live and do stuff other than find food
which developed specialists who created
technology which created army right like
it all came from agriculture in that way
mm-hmm but tons of bad stuff came from
it as well right the beginning of the
concept of a sedentary lifestyle came
from agriculture diseases that we got
from animals and then that we brought
other places and they killed tons of
people so I've kind of adopted that view
to technology now which is yeah all the
cool stuff we can imagine and
improvements I'm sure will be there but
problems we aren't even aware of yet are
also going to be there yeah I agree with
you 100% that's what I meant by looking
back at this social media problem I
think we're gonna have a far more
invasive problem I think I think we're
going to probably have some sort of a
wearable thing that allows us to
communicate through thoughts sure
well thoughts would be a next step but
at minimum I mean replacing you don't
need the screen on your phone right you
have contacts that are connected to
something and everything is just
displayed I mean there will be steps
Jaime whatever happened with that
Microsoft thing that we were looking at
remember they had like the little mouse
that was dancing in your hand
friend that was dancing in your hand
like I meant it magically yes that was
available it wasn't much as Microsoft
has hololens and they're on hololens
too but they've moved more towards like
a commercial applications for it as
opposed to like consumer availability
there are consumer availability AR
things coming out right now
they're what Apple just showed at their
WWDC event this month or actually on
Monday is really cool it's still just
like watching through that phone though
they're not I don't think anyone's made
the device like a glasses type AR thing
yet because the field of view isn't
right they haven't mastered that either
projecting light into your eye which is
what magic leap does are projecting onto
the glass thicker than looking at which
is what I think hololens and the other
thing does right so to figure it out yet
Betamax versus VHS race to see who
thinks so yeah but like that oculus
quest which is different just also just
came out is really cool and there's
they're so close so much closer they
could be within a year or two or
something could come out at the end of
this year that hasn't been announced
we're very close the question is like
how much is that going to affect daily
life right with augmented reality yeah
yeah the other one that relates to that
also is right now you at least can put
your phone away right what happens when
the line between the technology and the
body is I have a bit about it I'm very
concerned I really am and just a think
we're giving up agency to something that
has no feelings for us at all well
there's no I mean I think the problems
people have in practice often are
different than the ones I mean there's
no transparency with a lot of the the
companies that are developing these
technologies and setting up the
algorithms and whatever there's really
no transparency about what it is that's
going on what the end goals are what the
broader effects on society are going to
be I know you've had Jonathan hight on
who has talked a lot about the
disproportionate effect of social media
on suicidality particularly in young
girls relative to boys it's been years
now that this stuff has been around and
we're now kind of figuring that out
so it's inevitably we're behind always
in figuring out what the effects are
because you know time to measure it and
that as things advance more and more
quickly whatever damage is potentially
going to be done will happen even faster
yes yeah that's what the concern is that
we are always behind and that it's
sneaking into our lives before we have
any idea of how dangerous it is sure I
mean this happened with you know the
food the canned and processed food
revolution of the 50s and 60s mhm
it was slower but it was the same type
of thing where all of these advancements
in being able to make food last longer
via how it was processed and stored it
all sounded awesome at a time when food
would just go bad then we started
learning about all the bad things that
come with it exactly yeah anything more
before we wrap it up I think that's it
oh I so two things I wanted mention
someone when I announced that I was
going to be on the show
companies started contacting me saying
we will give you money if you work our
name our product into the conversation
what's new product I'm not gonna say but
I do want to talk about car insurance
briefly have you heard that that's
happened to other guests no you haven't
interesting that's interesting yeah wow
that's a weird sneaky thing yeah and no
one's ever paid me to do that no one's
paid you no no no one's ever paid me to
to have an like a conversation on a
podcast oh but one company did want to
advertise and they wanted their CEO to
come on the podcast and discuss their
product and I was like give me like an
infomercial I was like no and they're
like what you've talked about people
before that have had products before I
go yeah because I like their product
right and I think what they're doing is
cool right is zero financial investment
in their product I only did it because I
like it sure well I mean people my
audience knows that we do sponsored
stuff like your ads whatever I disclose
it I'm clear and my approach is I'm
super upfront with my audience which is
listenmi to only like half a percent of
you are paying for a membership the
memberships are six bucks a month I know
like 80% of you can afford it
like half a percent are doing it that's
fine I'm gonna keep doing the show but
I'm gonna put some sponsored content up
you don't have to watch it I'm in a
market as such period and I feel like
for the most part we have kind of an
understanding of how it all works
there's nothing wrong with it as long as
this products that you actually enjoy
and again that you maintain that
transparency and that honesty absolutely
wrong with that if I don't have that
with the audience I don't have anything
right and I asked been asked to
compromise it
you haven't yeah for sure yeah like it
would be worth so much you know yeah I
mean there's this moral hazard sort of
situation that exists with insurance
where the people who don't really need
the insurance are the ones that the
insurance companies want to insure right
the people that are more likely to use
the insurance the insurance companies
are like we're gonna have to charge you
six times as much type of thing right
it's easier to get the sponsorship money
from stuff that's less interesting or
less aligned or whatever mhm and I don't
know I mean it's an ongoing battle I
don't talk to any of our advertisers
like we have a team that handles all of
that and that is great but they're you
know there are still calls to make about
like what is on this side of the line
what's on that side of the line yeah I
try to make the right calls no I think
you're doing a great job
I appreciate your show I appreciate your
time thank thanks for coming down here
literally where they could find you
deepak man on PA KMA an on I'm on
Twitter at D Pakman I'm on where am i
I'm on Instagram at David Pakman and my
website david pakman.com all right thank
you David I think it's calling me
[Music]